--- 
layout: post
title: Announcement- Requesting Research Proposals for LBRN funding
categories: news
featuredImageUrlSquare: images/placeholderNewsImage.png
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
textOnUrl: Announcement- Requesting Research Proposals for LBRN funding
link: //LBRN-RFA-2019-10.html
eventDate: October 25, 2019
--- 

We are pleased to announce and extension for project proposals due October 25, 2019.

Below are the infoready portal links for the proposal submission.

#### Submission Deadline: Friday, October 25, 2019, Midnight.

For more information on each proposal type available and the other deadline and proposal details, continue to the FULL STORY below.

<!--more-->

The following fund proposal competitions are available below:  
    
  •  Full Project  
  •  Pilot Project  
  •  Translational Project  
  •  Shared Instrument  
  •  Startup Project  
  
Click on the appropriate --> links below to submit your Letter of Intent for the following fund proposal competitions:

### Full Project fund proposal competition
•  Internal Submission Deadline, October 25, 2019 (extended)
•  Award Cycle: 2020-2023  
•  Discipline/Subject Area: Biomedical Research  
•  Funding Available: 100,000.00  
•  Description:  The purpose of this RFA is to solicit new projects for the LBRN Full Project program, with funding up to a maximum of $100,000. The expected start date for this project is May 1, 2020 for 3 years of funding through April 30, 2023. Funding will be subject to competitive renewal of the program. The selection and distribution of these projects by the Steering Committee will be based on the quality of the proposal and the needs of the LBRN program. Proposed projects should be consistent with the program’s focal research areas (listed at: lbrn.lsu.edu). All interested researchers are encouraged to contact [Dr. Ramesh Subramanian (ramji@lsu.edu)](ramji@lsu.edu) prior to submitting a proposal to ensure that the proposed research is eligible for inclusion in this program. Please submit the Letter of Intent (LOI) by September 06, 2019 4:30 pm. Only those applicants who submit the LOI will be able to submit a proposal.  
--> [Full Fund Proposal Link](https://lbrn.infoready4.com/#manageCompetitionsDetail/1756504)

### Pilot Project fund proposal competition
•  Internal Submission Deadline, October 25, 2019 (extended)
•  Award Cycle: 2020-2021  
•  Discipline/Subject Area: Biomedical Research  
•  Funding Available: 50,000.00  
•  Description:  The purpose of this RFA is to solicit new projects for the LBRN program. The expected start date for this project is May 1, 2020 for 1 year of funding through April 30, 2021. The selection and distribution of these projects by the Steering Committee will be based on the quality of the proposal and the needs of the LBRN program. Proposed projects should be consistent with the program’s focal research areas (listed below). All interested researchers are encouraged to contact [Dr. Ramesh Subramanian (ramji@Lsu.edu)](ramji@lsu.edu) prior to submitting a proposal to ensure that the proposed research is eligible for inclusion in this program.   
--> [Pilot Fund Proposal Link](https://lbrn.infoready4.com/#manageCompetitionsDetail/1756535)  

### Translational Project fund proposal competition
•  Internal Submission Deadline, October 25, 2019  
•  Award Cycle: 2020-2021  
•  Discipline/Subject Area: Biomedical Research  
•  Funding Available: 40,000.00  
•  Description:  The purpose of this RFA is to solicit new projects for the LBRN program. The expected start date for this project is May 1, 2020 for 1 year of funding through April 30, 2021 (funding is subject to competitive renewal of the LBRN program). The selection and distribution of these projects by the Steering Committee will be based on the quality of the proposal and the needs of the LBRN/LACATS program. Proposed projects should be consistent with the program’s focal research areas (listed in the attached RFP). All interested researchers are encouraged to contact [Dr. Ramesh Subramanian (ramji@lsu.edu)](ramji@lsu.edu) prior to submitting a proposal to ensure that the proposed research is eligible for inclusion in this program. The Letter of Intent is due by 4:30pm on September 06, 2019.  
--> [Full Translational Proposal Link](https://lbrn.infoready4.com/#manageCompetitionsDetail/1756399)
### Shared Instrument fund proposal competition

•  Internal Submission Deadline, October 25, 2019 (extended)
•  Award Cycle: 2020-2020  
•  Discipline/Subject Area: Biomedical Research  
•  Funding Available: 25,000.00  
•  Description: The purpose of this RFA is to solicit new projects for the LBRN Shared Instrumentation Project program with funding up to a maximum of $25,000. This program is designed to contribute partial support funding (usually half of the purchase price) up to $25,000 Total Direct Cost. The expected start date for this project is May 1, 2020 for 1 year of funding through April 30, 2021. The selection and distribution of these projects by the Steering Committee will be based on the quality of the proposal and the needs of the LBRN program. Proposed projects should be consistent with the program’s focal research areas (listed below). All interested researchers are encouraged to contact [Dr. Ramesh Subramanian (ramji@Lsu.edu)](ramji@lsu.edu) prior to submitting a proposal to ensure that the proposed research is eligible for inclusion in this program. Please submit the Letter of Intent (LOI) by September 06, 2019 4:30 pm. Only those applicants who submit the LOI will be able to submit a proposal.  
--> [Shared Instrument Fund Proposal Link](https://lbrn.infoready4.com/#manageCompetitionsDetail/1756646)

### Startup Project fund proposal competition
•  Internal Submission Deadline, October 25, 2019 (extended)
•  Award Cycle: 2020-2022  
•  Discipline/Subject Area: Biomedical Research  
•  Funding Available: 50,000.00  
•  Description: The purpose of this RFA is to solicit new projects for the LBRN Startup Project program with funding up to a maximum of $50,000. This program is designed to contribute up to $25,000 Total Direct Costs per year for up to 2 years. The expected start date for this project is May 1, 2020 for 2 years of funding through April 30, 2022. The selection and distribution of these projects by the Steering Committee will be based on the quality of the proposal and the needs of the LBRN program. Proposed projects should be consistent with the program’s focal research areas (listed below). All interested researchers are encouraged to contact [Dr. Ramesh Subramanian (ramji@Lsu.edu)](ramji@lsu.edu) prior to submitting a proposal to ensure that the proposed research is eligible for inclusion in this program. Please submit the Letter of Intent (LOI) by September 06, 2019 4:30 pm. Only those applicants who submit the LOI will be able to submit a proposal.  
--> [Start-up Fund Proposal Link](https://lbrn.infoready4.com/#manageCompetitionsDetail/1756647)  



